---
layout: post
title: "What the second half of this crazy year has on offer"
date: 2020-07-24 
permalink: /thought/:year/2020/
description: This is a test description.
---

The first half of this year has been relentless in its weirdness. The COVID-19 crisis has thrown most plans out the window, but also opened doors to previously unexplored terrain. I've been working from home for most of the year and the new normal is just now settling in a bit. 

Working from home has mostly blurred the lines between work and private life, which made me reconsider what's really important, just to keep myself and my loved ones sane. I've all but thrown my Apple Watch out to be _in the moment_ more. I've disabled most notifications on my iPhone because they gave me anxiety. 

All of these little changes add up to being more aware of my surroundings, putting my energy where it's most needed right now: real connections with the people I love.

The biggest thing that's happening in the second half of this year, or ever, is becoming a dad for the first time. We've been phenomenaly lucky to even get to this point and I want to be the best dad I can possibly be. That's why I'm slowly throwing out distractions like my Apple Watch and notifications. I want to be there for every little moment, for each interaction and each step of the way. In the second half of this year and beyond I will be _offline_ more and putting real life experiences over anything else.

With a kid coming up it feels like not much else matters. I'm both anxious to meet her and already in love.

So far, 2020 sucked in a lot of ways, but it's also a year of tremendous change and happiness.